.TH YORO 1 "June 2026" "yoro 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yoro \- a terminal UI for local and CalDAV/CardDAV calendars and contacts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yoro
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yoro
is a terminal user interface for browsing calendars and contacts from any number
of \fIsources\fR: local vdir trees in the vdirsyncer/khal layout (iCalendar
\fI.ics\fR and vCard \fI.vcf\fR files) and remote CalDAV/CardDAV servers. It
presents them in a fast, vim-navigated, miller-column interface inspired by
.BR yazi (1).
Collections are tagged with the source they came from. Yoro is a pure client to
each source and never synchronizes one source to another; use
.BR vdirsyncer (1)
to keep a local vdir in step with a DAV server.
.PP
The interface has two modes \(em Calendar and Contacts \(em that share the same
navigation. The Calendar mode shows a day-grouped agenda with a mini-month
navigator and per-collection color toggles; recurring events are expanded on the
fly. The Contacts mode shows a three-column address book / contact list / detail
view with live search.
.PP
Events and contacts can be created (\fBa\fR), edited (\fBe\fR), and deleted
(\fBd\fR); changes are persisted to the owning source \(em a local file or a DAV
\fBPUT\fR/\fBDELETE\fR \(em and editing preserves properties Yoro does not
model. Recurring events can be created, edited, and deleted as a whole series via
a structured \fBRepeat\fR picker in the event form; per-instance exceptions
(\fBRECURRENCE-ID\fR, this-and-future) are planned.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-calendars \fIDIR\fR
Override the default local source's calendars directory (default
\fI~/.local/share/calendars\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-contacts \fIDIR\fR
Override the default local source's contacts directory (default
\fI~/.local/share/contacts\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Global
.TP
.B tab, 1, 2
Switch between Calendar and Contacts.
.TP
.B a
Create a new event (calendar) or contact (contacts) in the selected collection.
.TP
.B e
Edit the selected event or contact. Editing a recurring event changes the whole
series.
.TP
.B d
Delete the selected event or contact, after a \fBy\fR/\fBn\fR confirmation.
Deleting a recurring event removes the whole series.
.TP
.B R
Reload all data from disk.
.TP
.B ?
Toggle the help overlay.
.TP
.B q, ctrl+c
Quit.
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B h, l
Move focus to the column on the left or right.
.TP
.B j, k
Move down or up.
.TP
.B gg, G
Jump to the top or bottom.
.TP
.B ctrl+d, ctrl+u
Half-page down or up.
.TP
.B ctrl+f, ctrl+b
Page down or up.
.SS Calendar
.TP
.B t
Jump to today.
.TP
.B }, {
Jump to the next or previous day that has events.
.TP
.B J, K
Move the mini-month to the next or previous month.
.TP
.B space
Toggle the highlighted collection on or off.
.TP
.B T
Toggle visibility of tasks (VTODO).
.SS Contacts
.TP
.B /
Search contacts;
.B esc
clears.
.TP
.B y
Yank the highlighted email or phone number to the clipboard (via OSC52).
.TP
.B s
Switch the active contacts source (contacts are browsed one source at a time).
.SH CONFIGURATION
With no configuration file, Yoro browses a single local source at the default
directories below. To browse multiple sources \(em e.g. a local vdir plus a
CalDAV/CardDAV account \(em create
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yoro/config.toml
(usually \fI~/.config/yoro/config.toml\fR) with one \fB[[sources]]\fR table per
source. A \fBlocal\fR source takes \fBcalendars\fR and \fBcontacts\fR paths; a
\fBdav\fR source takes \fBurl\fR, \fBusername\fR, and either \fBpassword\fR or
\fBpassword_command\fR (run via the shell to print the secret). Source names must
be unique. See \fIdocs/vdirsyncer.md\fR for the local-mirror workflow.
.PP
Calendars from every source overlay in the agenda; contacts are browsed one
source at a time. Google, iCloud, and Fastmail require a provider-issued
\fIapp password\fR (with 2-factor enabled), not the account password, and serve
calendars and contacts from different hosts \(em add two \fBdav\fR sources, one
per host. Nextcloud serves both from a single base URL. See
\fIdocs/accounts.md\fR for per-provider recipes.
.SS Examples
A local vdir tree plus a Nextcloud account (one URL for both protocols):
.PP
.EX
[[sources]]
name = "local"
type = "local"
calendars = "~/.local/share/calendars"
contacts  = "~/.local/share/contacts"

[[sources]]
name = "nextcloud"
type = "dav"
url  = "https://cloud.example.com/remote.php/dav/"
username = "you"
password_command = "pass yoro/nextcloud"
.EE
.PP
iCloud, which splits calendars and contacts across two hosts:
.PP
.EX
[[sources]]
name = "icloud-calendar"
type = "dav"
url  = "https://caldav.icloud.com/"
username = "you@icloud.com"
password_command = "pass yoro/icloud"

[[sources]]
name = "icloud-contacts"
type = "dav"
url  = "https://contacts.icloud.com/"
username = "you@icloud.com"
password_command = "pass yoro/icloud"
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/yoro/config.toml
Optional configuration file describing sources (honors \fBXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/calendars
Default local source's calendars directory. Each subdirectory containing
\fI.ics\fR files is a calendar collection; optional \fIdisplayname\fR and
\fIcolor\fR sibling files set the name and color.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/contacts
Default local source's contacts directory. Each subdirectory containing
\fI.vcf\fR files is an address book.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Used to locate the default data directories when set.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Used to locate the configuration file when set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yazi (1),
.BR khal (1),
.BR vdirsyncer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Zack Bartel <zack@bartel.com>.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
